## Note
You can buy SSL certificates from many sources. However, I will recommend comodo
security provider (https://ssl.comodo.com/). Comodo also provides free SSL certificate, learn
more about it by visiting this link ( https://ssl.comodo.com/free-ssl-certificate.php)

### You need to generate a key and a certificate file and send it to the security provider (if you are
buying it) for verification. Here is a sample command to generate a key and a certificate file using openssl.

#### Generate a key as follows:
```
openssl genrsa -out key.pem 2048
```
#### Now, generate a certificate file as follows:
```
openssl req -new -x509 -key key.pem -out cert.pem -days 365
```
You need to answer a few questions in the setup wizard, but make sure that the common name matches the domain name of your server.

```
rethinkdb/instances.d/default.conf
```
#### And add the following keys:
```
http-tls-key=/path of the key file
http-tls-cert=/path of the certificate file
```

Make sure the path is accessible by the user account.
Now to make sure that our client driver also uses the certificate to make the connection to
RethinkDB, we need to start RethinkDB with the following options:
```
rethinkdb --driver-tls-key key.pem --driver-tls-cert cert.pem
```
Now, in client driver code, in the connect() function, pass the SSL key as shown in the

following code:
```
ssl: {
ca: /path of certificate file.
```

Note that we pass only the certificate to the client driver, not the key. Now, in order to have
TLS encryption between the machines in the cluster, we need to pass the following parameter:
```
rethindb --cluster-tls-key key.pem --cluster-tls-cert cert.pem --cluster-tlsca ca.pem
```

Here we are passing a CA certificate, which is the certificate used to sign another certificate.
Servers can connect to the cluster if the certificate is generated by the CA authority certificate
passed in the argument.   

This way, we can secure our cluster is using TLS encryption. Now let's look over the port
binding method to secure our web administrative screen.

